Cloud computing is the delivery of a computer network, on demand, which is provided over the internet. This is charged dependent on how much is used. By using cloud computing, it is a cost efficient way to operate, as well as give easy access to materials and improve capabilities. Since the network is provided online, there are many ways in which a company can help save the environment. Companies are constantly trying to cut down on their carbon footprint. Carbon footprint is the amount of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere by a specific company or organisation.   For larger, established firms cloud adoption can cut energy use and carbon emissions by 30 to 60 percent in comparison to on-premise IT infrastructure. In the circumstance of mid-sized firms, carbon emissions and energy consumption can be reduced by a staggering 60 to 90 percent, and for smaller and start-up funds, typical e-waste reduction surpasses 90 percent. The greatest impact, however, is contributed by cloud service providers. Computing from the cloud means fewer machines and less hardware, which translates into lower cooling and space requirements. This means reduced energy and electricity usage by a company.  
Another Benefit of cloud computing is that its easier to access. If using cloud storage, one aspect of cloud computing which is an online storage space for all files of all file paths, then you can access your files from any device, anywhere in the world as long as it has an internet connection. This can make life easier for an organisation to access files from different locations.
There are a few concerns amongst the praise for cloud computing. One fear is that of security. People are anxious that should a company be hit with a cyber attack that they lose their files permanently. By storing files on the cloud, you are trusting the company that rented you the storage space with your data. You cant control what happens to your data when it is stored on the cloud, but there are laws to protect it. 
Data stored on the cloud is usually protected by a number of means. One way to keep data safe is using encryption. Encryption is the process of converting information or data into a code, to prevent unauthorized access. Encryption can happen in two stages when uploading to the cloud, when the data is in transit and when the data is at rest. One type of encryption used in cloud computing is called sharding. This is where the data is separated into different sections, and stored in different places. This means if someone was able to break in, they would only be able to access random block of your data Although encryption is used, its still your responsibility to ensure you protect your data. Another method of security that is often used in cloud computing is two factor authentication. This is when after your password is entered to access your files, you will be sent a security code sent to a mobile device linked with the account. To access your files you need both a correct password and code.
Data stored on the cloud is usually kept in the providers data centres. These huge centres could be located anywhere in the world. Many companies have many data centres worldwide, with copies of your data stored in different centres. This is in the case that one centre is targeted or destroyed, then your data is still intact.
So why move to cloud computing? On-site data centres typically require a lot of  hardware setup, software patching and other time-consuming IT management chores. Cloud computing removes the need for many of these tasks, so IT teams can spend time on achieving more important business goals.
There are far more uses for cloud computing than just storing data. It is possible to create, test and build new applications. This can be done on many platforms(web, mobile and API) from any location. This reduce application development cost and time by using cloud infrastructures that can easily be scaled up or down. You can also create software and offer software updates to customers worldwide, regardless of their locations. It is also possible organise your data in different sections of the cloud. This then allows you to uses cloud services such as machine learning and artificial intelligence to make more accurate decisions for analysis.
A question that is commonly asked is how to go about choosing a cloud provider.  The most important thing to consider is whether you trust the providers. If you are unsure, you can read reviews of the provider or ask existing customers their opinions. Also ensure that the provider is in a stable financial position with funds to operate over a long period of time. It is also important to check what support is available to you as a customer. Look to see if they give you a performance report and update on any changes being made. Finally, when choosing a provider, check to see what security methods are being used. There should be a comprehensive security infrastructure for all levels and types of cloud services. Changes to any application service or hardware component should be authorised on a personal or group role basis, and authentication should be required for anyone to change an application or data. Data centres should have environmental safeguards to protect equipment and data from disruptive events. There should be redundant networking and power and a documented disaster recovery and business continuity plan. 
Cloud computing is usually pay per use which reduces unnecessary storage. This helps the environment as when companies use the cloud, they are not using more equipment than they need.
